# Gaming the Edition Discussion (24 January 2013) 

Attending: JS, AC, NB, SW

## Things to Consider

incentives - gaining skills and credentials (how is it represented so that it's more useful? how can credentials be leveraged beyond projects?)

what are the social aspects of the design and credentialing? 

social networking could be implemented to ground incentive and ideas 

guild structures: what would they actually look like? 

is this a learning hub? is it gameful design in a social networking environ? 

if the environment for editing is connected but discrete, how would editing work? 

need to have a planning session: what are the objectives? creating workflows for personas (across levels of expertise) 

who matters? or who cares? who is not in the target audience? 

how to treat edits as unique contributions (with metadata) 

how to build workflows where people follow and verify / lurk contributions? 

how to evaluate competencies of contributors? when do they level up?

using branches to allow for multiple editorial approaches? 

version control can let us toggle between different possible editions?

## What Could Be Terrible? What Could Go Wrong? 

need to determine editorial practices and follow them

version control may provide a solution: could editorial decisions emerge from the bottom up? or be produced after the fact? 

determine and acquire copy text first   

how to evaluate skills and levels equitably, as a "full learning experience"? 

need user feedback and direct input to determine value

have a Plan B when feedback is NOT given.  

how to appeal to strengths? And building systems that promote and encourage them? 

then how to evaluate all of those strengths? 

## Existing Models and Projects 

[DocPad](http://docpad.org/) 

[Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/)

[GitHub](https://github.com/)

[LinkedIn's Use of Endorsements](http://www.linkedin.com/home)

[CWRC Writer](http://cwrctc.artsrn.ualberta.ca/)

wikis, generally speaking

see web-based programming editors, too

could you make an IDE that's purpose-fit for lit studies? 

## Ethical Considerations

gameful design for scholarly purposes could change scholarly labour? if so, then to what effects? 

allowing people to select what projects are available, e.g. 

consider differences between gameful design and gamification 

## New Methods for Editing through Gameful Design 

determine where credit could be attributed 

track those activities and what has been achieved 

where and when feedback occurs 

visualize and save those histories

determine when and how commits are validated 

identifying roles for main editor 
